---
title: Becoming Extremely Offline
date: 2025-01-04
params:
    author: Luke Green
draft: false
---

In 2025, I will be Extremely Offline.

## Context

I have heard the term Extremely Online[^1] circulating around recently. It's
been used to talk about things as dumb as whether or not someone will understand
a meme, to things as serious as election results. The gist is someone who is
more involved with the internet than with their real life.

It might sound from the way I've started this article that I consider myself to
be Extremely Online and want to change that. Really, I don't think that applies
to me. I tend to not use social media much, and don't have any of those apps
installed on my phone, but there are some ways I use the internet that I think
are making my life worse rather than better. I'm going to break those down, why
I would like to change them, and how.

## News

In 2025, I am going to get my news from a calm source[^4]. I try to be an aware
person, who cares about the things going on in my city, state, country, and
world. However, I have found this to be an _incredible_ source of anxiety in my
life. The future, and chaos of it, causes me a lot of stress. Especially since
getting married. I think largely this is because the most stressful stories are
the most seen.

Rage-baiting[^2] has not only taken over Twitter, Facebook, and all short-video
platforms, but it has also taken over the news. Look no further than
[r/politics](https://reddit.com/r/politics) on Reddit to see how pervasive this
has become. The frustrating thing[^3] is that _it works_.

I know that a lot of news _necessarily_ is about serious, difficult, scary
things. That's okay, and I understand that I'll need to know about those things.
I just want to avoid news sources that are trying to monetize these emotions for
views, retention, and profit.

Unfortunately, I don't currently know what this looks like. A couple months back
I purchased a subscription to the New York Times in hopes that a relatively
middle-of-the-road-politically, world-respected news outlet would do a good job
of telling me what is going on and allowing me to draw my own conclusions. I
think this might still be an okay solution for me. However, I don't like how
overwhelming the home page is. There are _so many_ articles. It is particularly
hard to parse in a way that many other websites aren't. I don't know if its some
subconscious attribute of their UX or something else, but it is so hard for me to
decide which articles to read in a timely manner. I'll probably continue to try
this out for at least a couple of months and go from there.

I have also heard some ads[^5] for newsletters emailed to you with daily
summaries of things going on. This sounds nice in theory, but I am a little
skeptical of these small publications and whether or not they will have high
journalistic standards.

In general, I will be trying to get my news from a real source, and not from
social platforms where attention grabbing headlines are posted for engagement.

## Reddit

In 2025, I will not use Reddit. In my [alternatives](/alternatives) section,
I've already listed out some of the problems I have with Reddit, and ways I have
been getting around them. I firmly believe Reddit is one of the worst places on
the internet. Sometime in the last week, I officially deleted my account.
There's not much to say here. In general the vocal portion of Reddit is a hive
mind of nerd-adjacent people[^6] who like to talk down to people about anything
and everything they can.

The last holdout I found useful on Reddit was getting less-biased reviews of
things I was thinking about buying. It's so hard to find opinions on mainstream
products like backpacks, cameras, shoes, laptops, etc by just searching the
internet. There are too many terrible "10 best \<x product\>" posts that are
just referral farms with no helpful information at all. However, the pitfall is
that Reddit folks would like to convince you that if you don't have $500 to
spend on a camera, you just shouldn't get one[^7].

My solution to this is partly helped by another thing I want to do in 2025,
which is to go to stores to shop instead of doing it online. Specialty stores
have employees who are actually good at helping customers find what they need,
so I'm going to just do that. I do still need to find a solution to researching
products online though, as there aren't specialty stores for everything.

## YouTube

In 2025, I will limit myself to 30 minutes of YouTube a day. It is not an
exaggeration to say I _love_ YouTube. It taught me how to cook, how to take
better pictures, tons about programming, how to home-brew, etc, etc. I love
learning new things, and it has taught me so much. But, it also causes me to
waste so much time that I wouldn't have otherwise wasted. I would be lying if I
said this post wasn't delayed until now because I was dragging my feet on
cutting my YouTube use.

Especially over the last few years YouTube has become significantly more similar
to other social media apps and is fighting to keep me on their page as long as
possible. Shorts, auto-play, recommendations, the home page, search that just
recommends other videos, etc are all ways that YouTube is trying to make it
easier for me to just watch another video that do anything else. My strategy
here is two-fold.

Part 1: Learn from reading instead of watching. I want to retrain my brain to
want to find a book about a topic to learn, instead of a YouTube video about it.
I got a library card almost a year ago and have only been to the educational
section once. I want to go more. If there is no book[^8], I would like to find
someone online who writes about it. A good example is a
[James Popsys](https://www.youtube.com/@JamesPopsysPhoto), a YouTuber whose
videos I really enjoy. They are inspiring, educational, and decidedly a good use
of my time. However, he also has a blog where he posts loads about photography,
and way more photos than in his videos. I want to read things like this more
than I sit back and passively watch.

Part 2: Lock down YouTube. I already don't have the YouTube app on my phone, so
I never watch on it. On my laptop I have installed the
[Unhook](https://unhook.app/) browser extension and turned off everything except
for my subscriptions. On a busy day, there will likely be three new videos
posted here. On a slow one, maybe none. My goal is that this would condition me
to go to the website significantly less because almost never will a video I
haven't seen be shown.

Part 3: Whoops part 3 - if part 2 doesn't work I'll get more strict. Starting by
setting a hard limit on my laptop, and after that DNS blocking it on our WiFi if
I have to.

## Conclusion

In 2025 I will be Extremely Offline. The things listed above are (were) the main
holdouts keeping me tied to the internet in unhealthy ways. No doubt, I will
still use the internet. However, I am hoping to do so in a much more controlled
and quiet way. There are also some things I want to do more of that my current
relationship with the internet is preventing. I'll maybe write about those thing
more in depth, but a quick list is: read more, write more, take more pictures,
be less anxious, be more attentive, be less consumeristic, be healthier.

There are a few places on the internet that are really good for me, and I think
its worth shouting them out.

- I have fallen in love with [Flickr](https://flickr.com/people/jlgre/) as a
  place to share photos with other photographers and see their work. It has no
  algorithm.

- I have been playing around with [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@lgre)
  some. It feels like a modern version of forums, and I have really enjoyed its
  quieter take on social media. I may delete my account here though sometime
  this year if it proves to be too much like social media.

- I am semi-active on the [Snappiness Forum](https://snappiness.space/forum).
  This is a YouTuber who has curated a very cool forum of talented,
  unpretentious, photographers.

[^1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extremely_online

[^2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rage-baiting

[^3]: Though I guess I shouldn't be surprised.

[^4]:
    Maybe calm is the wrong word, but I couldn't think of a better one. I mean,
    a news source that is not purposefully trying to make me feel very strong
    emotions all the time. Just tell me the things that are going on.

[^5]: Probably a bad sign. Ads are almost always for bad products.

[^6]:
    Nerd-adjacent is not a dig(I'm right there) - just the hive mind and talk
    down part.

[^7]: This is real, I saw it everywhere with loads of different products.

[^8]: There will be, somewhere.
