---
title: Alternatives
params:
    author: Luke Green
---

Here are some things I am trying to stop using, why, and what I've replaced them
with; if they should be replaced. Some of them are for health reasons, moral
reasons, or privacy reasons. I am not claiming that this is the perfect way to
satisfy any of those goals, just what I am working on right now.

## Social Media

### Instagram

In its infancy, Instagram was pretty cool and was a fun way to see photos of
what your friends were doing. Now it is some weird combination of
Algorithm-served short videos designed to grab my attention, and the rare post
from a friend from a week ago.

I use(d) Instagram for two very different puposes. I have a wildlife photography
account that serves as a portfolio of sorts, and I have a personal accout that
had the goal of keeping up with my friends. I will have two different sections
of alternatives for these two distinct purposes.

#### Alternatives (socially)

- **Instagram**: I've turned off suggested content[^1], which only shows me
  things from people I follow. As well as only use Instagram in the browser. But
  this is imperfect as the Algorithm is terrible at showing me what I want, and
  great at showing me what will keep me on the app as long as possible.

- **Talk to your friends**: It seems absurd that I have to even write this. But
  everything Instagram promises in terms of social interaction, can be done by
  talking to your friends.

    - Ask them how their trip was
    - Send them pictures of cool things that happened to you
    - Just like, be their friend

#### Alternatives (photography)

- **[Flickr](https://flickr.com)**: I really like Flickr. It has somehow
  survived the Algorithmization of social media. It is simple, serves as a place
  to post my photos and looks at others whose work inspires me.

- **This site**: I will likely add a portfolio section to show some of my
  favorite work on this site.

- **Make projects**: I am hoping to start making physical projects of cohesive
  photos I take.

- **Read/view projects**: Go to your library - they have loads of photo books to
  check out. Specifically from old renowned photographers who you won't see on
  the internet.

### Reddit

The more I use Reddit, the more I think I should just stop. Redditors are a meme
for a reason, and you can get news and interact with communities of interest
(see Flickr above) in other places. In these alternatives I'll focus on the
link-aggregation nature of Reddit.

#### Alternatives

- **An RSS feed**: After reading
  [this article](https://www.staygrounded.online/p/a-well-curated-feed-reader-is-a-wonderful?utm_source=publication-search)
  I have wanted to set up an RSS feed of things I would usually look for on
  Reddit. If I do, I'll update this to reflect how that experience has been.

- **Local new sites**: I used Reddit a lot to see what was going on in my local
  area. This problem was solved in eternity past by _the newspaper_.
  Unfortunately, here, they only circulate monthly but all have real websites
  that stay up to date with local news.

## Entertainment

### YouTube

I don't have much of a problem with comsumption-based entertainment. I think
that TV, movies, and even something like YouTube can have its place. I think
that the real problem, of which YouTube has also fallen into, is _passive_
consumption. With autoplay, shorts, Algorithm-driven suggestions, etc, it is
really easy to passively watch. These alternatives will focus on active
consumption instead.

#### Alternatives

- **[Freetube](https://github.com/FreeTubeApp/FreeTube)**: This is a YouTube
  client that allows you to turn off all suggestions. I have mine configured to
  show the newest videos from channels I subscribe to. It does not show shorts,
  and it does not show recommendations. It also, theoretically is more private.
  I haven't done loads of reasearch on that, but currently YouTube is the only
  thing tying me to Google. Unfortunately, it also seems to be capped to 1080p
  playback, which is unfortunate.

- **Add channels to your RSS feed**: I don't do this, namely because I don't
  have an RSS feed, but I would love to get to a point where I have
  RSS+something like youtube-dl[^2] to watch videos locally.

### Streaming services

I am currently dependent on Spotify for my music, and TV streaming services for
movies and TV. However, I would love to start buying physical copies of music,
tv, and movies. Though, that is extremely expensive, so who knows if I will do
it.

**Update Aug, 11, 2025** I bought an iPod classic a few months back, and have
been loading it up with music from [bandcamp](https://bandcamp.com/). Very fun
and I don't have to deal with Spotify's AI-generated "cozy morning vibes"
playlists.

## Shopping

### Amazon

I really don't like using Amazon, and honestly only get a few things there
periodically. I should probably cancel my Prime membership. Amazon is
anti-competitive, and treats their employees particularly bad. I would rather
not support a business like that.

#### Alternatives

**Shop locally**: This is the best option. When I have the option, I always try
to shop at a locally owned store.

**Shop at real stores**: Sometimes local stores may not have what I want, in
that case I try to shop at a real store, even if it is a chain.

**Order from other online sources**: If I can't buy something in person, I would
rather order from a different online store than Amazon. For example, I buy
camera gear almost exclusively from [B&H](https://www.bhphotovideo.com/) (new)
and [MPB](https://www.mpb.com/) (used).

### Kindle

For the same reasons as Amazon

#### Alternatives

**Real books**: Your local library will literally give you books for free. Go
get them.

**Other E-Readers**: I have a pocketbook E-Reader that I love, but any brand
that supports books _not_ purchased through the Kindle store is great.

### Misc Programs

Lots of things to put here, so I'll try and keep it short and sweet.

- **Adobe Lightroom**: I really want to use
  [Darktable](https://www.darktable.org/) because its free, open-source, and
  AI-free. But I haven't been able to get it to work well enough for me.

- **Windows**: I use a Mac at home, but would really prefer to use Linux[^3].
  Apple definitely has its own anti-compete issues that I would rather not
  support. However, Lightroom doesn't run on Linux, and Apple cares
  significantly more about my privacy than Windows.

- **G-Mail**: It's _so_ easy to use a different email provider. Specifically, I
  choose one I have to pay for[^4], as they are much more likely to value my
  privacy. Its also easy to set it up to use this domain.

- **Google search**: Google search has gotten worse, and they are adding AI
  summaries which I am not interested in. I use
  [duckduckgo](https://duckduckgo.com). **Update Aug 11, 2025** Duckduckgo
  started adding AI overviews, and also not giving great results. I am now using
  [Startpage](https://www.startpage.com/) instead

- **VSCode**: Microsoft classicly has a parasitic relationship with open-source,
  and I expect the same for VSCode eventually. Neovim is perfect for my use
  case. **Update August 11, 2025** I am currently using VSCode at work for
  remote debugging in the browser - you can get this to work with NeoVim but its
  an adventure.

- **Google Chrome**: I use Firefox. **Update August, 11, 2025** Firefox released
  a really sketchy update to their terms of service [^5] - namely granting
  license rights to _everything I do in the browser_ - so I'm using
  [Ungoogled Chromium](https://github.com/ungoogled-software/ungoogled-chromium)
  now. I long for the day where there's a good, open source, non-big-business
  backed browser, but that day may never come.

[^1]:
    I have to do this every thirty days, and only from the app, so that's
    annoying and definitely maliciously designed by Meta.

[^2]: https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl

[^3]: which I do at work

[^4]: https://duckduckgo.com/?t=ffab&q=if+its+free+you+are+the+product&ia=web

[^5]:
    https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/legal/terms/services/ - specifically
    "Your Content in Our Services"
